
1.What is git ?
git is a distributed version control system designed to track changes in files and coordinate work amoung multiple cordinators
it is used to manage source code,track,project history facilitate coolloborations and enable branching and merging workflows.

2.what is the differencr between git and git hub ?
git is the version control system itself,while git hub is a hosting platform for git repositories.
Git hub provides additional features such as colloboration tools,issue tracking,pull requests and integration with other services

3.whaat is a repository in git ? 
A repository or repo in git is a collection of files and directories along with the version history of those files,it represents a project and 
serves as the central location for storing managing and sharing code.

4.How do you create a new git repository ? 
To create a new git repository navigate to the project directory and run the command gitint.
This initializes a new git repository in the current directory creating a hidden .git folder to store version control metadate

5.Explain the difference between git commit and Git push ? 
A Git commit records changes to the repositoy files,creating a new snapshot or version of the project
Git push on the other hand sends, committed changes from local repository to remote repository enabling and sharing of code with others.

6.what is a Git branch and why it is used ?
Git branch is light weight movable pointer to a commits in the repository version history, Branches are used to isolate work on new features,
bug fixes or experiements with out affecting the main code branch

7.How do you create and switch between git branches ? 
To create a new branch git branch branchname 
to switch branches git checkout branchname or git switch branchname
Alternatively you can create and switch to a new branch using command git checkout -b branchname

8.What is git merge and how does it work ?
Git merge combines changes from one branch to another branch 

9. what is git tag and why it is used ?
    git tag marks specific points in the repository's history. often used for version releases. for example git tag v1.0 tags the current commit as 
      version 1.0

10.How do you push a tag to a remote repository ?
use git push origin <tagname>  to push a tag to the remote repository

11. How do you delete a taag locally and remotely ?
Git tag -d <tag name> deletes a local tag,
git push origin --delete <tagname> deletes it from repository 

12.Explain lightweight vs annotated tags ?
lightweight tags are just pointers to a commit,while annotated tags stores additional metadate like a message,author, and date.

13.How can you list all tags in a repository ?
use git tag to list all tags

14.How do you revert a commit ?
git revert <commit-id> creates a new commit that undoes the changes of the specified commit, preserving history

15.what is difference between git reset and git revert ? 
git reset moves the HEAD pointer to a previous commit modifying history, while git revert creates a new commit to undo changes without 


