126. What is Kubernetes ?

Kubernates is a container orchestration tool like docker swarm intially created by google later it was made open source. 
Using kuberntes we can handle all the production related challenges like load balancing,scalling,rolling updates,failover scenarios etc.
the main machine where kubernetes is configured is called as "master". this controlled by an application called "kubeadm".
the node which takes the indtruction from master are called as "slave" and they use application called "kubeapi"
combination of master and slave is known as kubernates cluster and individual machines in this cluster are called as "nodes or minions"

127. Difference blw Docker Swarm & Kubernetes ?

128. Explain Kubernetes Architecture ?

Kubernetes follows a master-worker acrhitechture 
The master node is responsible for managing the cluster, while the worker nodes are responsible for running the applications. 
The key components include the API Server,etcd,scheduler,control manager,kubelet and kubeproxy
129. Explain master node and worker node components in Kubernetes ?
130. What is Kubectl ?

kubectl is a command-line tool used to interact with Kubernetes clusters. It provides a way to manage and control various Kubernetes resources, such as pods, 
deployments, services, and more.

131. How many types of Kubernetes cluster we have ?
132. What is a Pod in Kubernetes ?

Pod is the smaller deployable unit in kubernetes,Representing one or more container that shares same network and storage context.

 This is the smallest object that kubernetes works on with in a pod we have a container so pod is generally named as layer of encapsulation on top container.
kubernates cannot directly work on containers instead it works on pods it is the responsibility for the pod to communicate with container and perform 
the desire activity

133. what is minikube and what are the requirments for setup ?
134. In Kubernetes how many ways we can create resources ?

In kubernetes we can creare resources in 3 ways 
Imperative
Declarative

134. what is ReplicaSet in Kubernetes ?

This is the high level kubernetes object which is the capable of deploying multiple replicas of pods and it can also be used for scalling.

135. what is Deploymenr in Kubernetes 

This is also high level kubernetes object which can be used for creating multiple replicas of pods, it can be used for scalling  and also performing
rolling updates.


136. what is Difference blw ReplicaSet & Deployment in Kubernetes ?
137. what is Rollout in Kubernetes ?
139. what is Namespaces in Kubernetes & why we need to use it ?

In Kubernetes namespace is a logical isolation of resources.Network,policies,RBAC & Everything for example there are two projects using the same k8s cluster 
one project can use ns1 and other project can use ns2 with out any overlap and authentication problems.

140. What are types of services in k8s ?

There are three different types of services in k8s
cluster ip
node port
load balancer

141. differnece blw ClusterIp vs NodePort vs LoadBalancer ?
142. What is scaling and what is HPA in K8s ?
143. What is a metric server in k8s ?
144. How you get metrics of nodes and pods ?
145. Difference blw HPA VS VPA ?
146. what is DaemonSet ?
147. Difference blw Deployment and DaemonSet ?
148. Difference blw ReplicaSet and ReplicationController ?
149. MAX NODES: 5000, MAX PODS: 1,50,000 MAX PODS PER NODE: 110 ?
150. What is pv and pvc in kubernetes ?
persistent volumes are storage resources provisioned by an adminstrator in the cluster
Persistent volume claims are requests for storage made by users

151. What is metric server in kubernetes ?
What is difference between deployment and demand set and replica set versus replication control.

What is resource quotas in kubernetes it is and what is rbac ?
what is helmschart and why we need to use it ?

