Introduction : 


Hi my name is saiteja and i have 4 years of experience as a devops engineer and i have experience of working with various devops tools like git,jenkins,docker,
kubernetes,terraform and ansible. 
I have experience in writing jenkins file for cicd automation that includes automation stuff from BUILD to DEPLOYMENT
I Have experience of Writing docker files to create docker images and doing containerization of application and then deploying them into kubernetes cluster 
I do write various manifest files that are required for deploying applications in kunebrnets cluster.

Major part of my work is into Monitoring  running applications in kubernetes cluster and making sure that they are continuosly up and running in cluster and 
ensuring high availability of applications for the clientes who are accessing it 
This is what i have been into my experience as a Devops Engineer.

What is CI/CD or explain the process of CI/CD
CICD is the process of doing automation from point where developers push their code to the remote repo to the point where we deploy application into kubernetes cluster
It first starts with cloning the code from remote repo to jenkins worksspace.
and then doing build out of the code written by the developers using some build tools like maven,gradle or any other tool...
and then pushing the build artifact into any remote repo like jfrog or nexus and then doing vulnerability check,code coverage analysis,code smells,duplications 
everything like that using tools like SONARQUBE,JACACO,QUALITYGATES etc...
and if the published report is more than the specified value proceeding to the next step of creating docker image using docker plugin and deploying that kubernetes
cluster using kubernetes plugin and then doing health check of the running application if it is 200 or not and then notifying whether the build is success or not.

what is devops ?

DevOps is a set of practices that combines software development (Dev) and IT operations (Ops) to improve collaboration, communication, and efficiency in delivering 
software products and services. It is a cultural and organizational shift that promotes collaboration, automation, and continuous improvement across development 
and operations teams.

The main goal of DevOps is to break down the traditional barriers between development and operations and create a more seamless and streamlined software
delivery process. It aims to bring developers, system administrators, quality assurance engineers, and other stakeholders together to work collaboratively 
throughout the entire software development lifecycle.
